Add explaination for 0-N CoBOM requirement (#153)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

# CoBOM {#sec-cobom}

A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) object represents the signal for the

> Verifier to activate the listed tags. Data contained in a tag SHOULD NOT be used

Reviewer: The conditions under which the recommendation can be skipped should be listed adjacent to the `SHOULD NOT`.

Author: I think, I have made it clear that when CoBOMs are required, then this should apply.

If we read the entire para, it makes more clarity on the context!

for appraisal until a CoBOM which activates that tag has been received and
successfully processed. All the tags listed in the CoBOM must be activated in
the same transaction, i.e., either all or none.

> The number of CoBOMs required in a given supply chain eco-system is dependent on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of CoBOMs required in a given supply chain ecosystem is dependent on
```

Reviewer 2: resolved in PR

> Verifier Owner's Appraisal Policy for Evidence, which is often driven by the complexity and nature of

Reviewer: It is not clear to me what the _"which"_ references?

Is it the policy or the number of CoBOMs?

Author: I think it is quite clear the which refers to Policy? Isn't it..

Reviewer 2: resolved even better in PR

> Verifier Owner's Appraisal Policy for Evidence, which is often driven by the complexity and nature of
> the use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verifier Owner's Appraisal Policy for Evidence. Corresponding policies are often driven by the complexity and nature of the use case.
```

> For example, in cases where only limited CoRIMs are produced by a single authority, a Verifier Owner may have

Reviewer: What is _"limited CoRIMs"_?

If it's "limited number of CoRIMs" why should it be a factor?

> a policy that CoBOM's are not required. In this case, signature chain over each CoRIM is sufficient authorization,

Reviewer: s/signature chain/the signature/

It is not clear to me what we mean by _"sufficient authorization"_?

Author: Changed it to the required authroization

> and may not require additional authorization via CoBOM. Any tags in a CoRIM received by a Verifier

Reviewer: AFAIU CoBOMs don't do any authorisation, they do filtering / selection.

> are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal.
```

> However, a more common case is the one where Verifier receives multiple CoRIMs containing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, a more common case is one where the Verifier receives multiple CoRIMs containing
```

Author: I think, the original line 1271 does makes sense, though I should use the comma to stress the use case.

Reviewer 2: resolved due to new text in PR

> Reference Values and Endorsements from multiple Reference Value providers and Endorsers
> respectively. In such cases, an integrator or a supplier authority may be designated to

Reviewer: It's not clear what a _"supplier authority"_ is.  I reckon "integrator" is enough to convey the idea.

```suggestion
Reference Values and Endorsements from multiple Reference Value providers and Endorsers.  An integrator may be designated to
```

Author: > It's not clear what a _"supplier authority"_ is. I reckon "integrator" is enough to convey the idea.

I have no hard views on this, I added supplier authority as per Ned's suggestion. Keeping supplier authority does not hurt, as it may not necessarily be the integrator but can also be an authority

Reviewer: > Keeping supplier authority does not hurt as it may not necessarily be the integrator but can also be an authority

I guess I'm having a hard time to digest the "authority" bit, because the integrator *is* an "authority" too given it signs the CoRIM...

Maybe: _"[...] In such cases, an integrator or a specific supplier may be designated to [...]"_

Reviewer 3: > > Keeping supplier authority does not hurt as it may not necessarily be the integrator but can also be an authority
> 
> I guess I'm having a hard time to digest the "authority" bit, because the integrator _is_ an "authority" too given it signs the CoRIM...
> 
> Maybe: _"[...] In such cases, an integrator or a specific supplier may be designated to [...]"_

Authority (in this document) refers to the key used sign (assert) conceptual messages or the key designated by an appraisal policy as the entity authorized to make assertions about a class of claims. The former case is relevant when no policy exists, but is overridden if a policy does exist.

Author: Thinking a bit more, perhaps we can retain supplier authority and make it like below:

 In such cases, a supplier authority (for example, an integrator) may be designated to

> issue a single CoBOM to activate all the CoRIM tags.

Reviewer: CoBOMs do not activate CoRIMs.

```suggestion
issue the single, authoritative CoBOM covering the set of ingested CoRIM tags.
```

Author: > CoBOMs do not activate CoRIMs.

Yes, I said CoRIM tags, may be I will say tags within CoRIMs

> In a more complex case, there may be multiple authorities that issue CoBOM's at different points in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a more complex case, there may be multiple authorities that issue CoBOM at different points in time.
```

Reviewer 2: resolved due to other changes in this PR

> An Appraisal Policy for Evidence may dictate how multiple CoBOM's are to be processed within the Verifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Appraisal Policy for Evidence may dictate how multiple CoBOM are to be processed within the Verifier.
```

Reviewer 3: The examples from lines 1266 to 1277 are too "value judgement" focused as evidenced by terms like "common" and "more complex".

Author: > The examples from lines 1266 to 1277 are too "value judgement" focused as evidenced by terms like "common" and "more complex".

Yes, this is required as to provide some clarity as to why there are cases, when no CoBOM, 1 CoBOM and N CoBOM are relevant.

Else, it is hard for a reader to grasp the real requirement or applicability of the CoBOM.

Reviewer 3: > Yes, this is required as to provide some clarity as to why there are cases, when no CoBOM, 1 CoBOM and N CoBOM are relevant.
> 
> Else, it is hard for a reader to grasp the real requirement or applicability of the CoBOM.

The explanation doesn't describe the 0,1,** property, rather it tries to describe it in exemplary terms. Maybe it should describe the considerations for 0,1,** and the algorithm for processing them. Exemplary text can add concreteness in terms of a use case. But the description of the use case doesn't need to imply what is common or simple etc.

Author: > > Yes, this is required as to provide some clarity as to why there are cases, when no CoBOM, 1 CoBOM and N CoBOM are relevant.
> > Else, it is hard for a reader to grasp the real requirement or applicability of the CoBOM.
> 
> The explanation doesn't describe the 0,1,** property, rather it tries to describe it in exemplary terms. Maybe it should describe the considerations for 0,1,** and the algorithm for processing them. Exemplary text can add concreteness in terms of a use case. But the description of the use case doesn't need to imply what is common or simple etc. I imagine something like the following:
> 
> * When no CoBOMs exist, the Verifier does ...
> * When 1 CoBOM exists, the Verifier does ...
> * When multiple CoBOMs exist, the Verifier does ...

I have done shorter version now and focused more on what Verifier does, when no CoBOM, one CoBOM and multiple CoBOM is the case!

successfully processed. All the tags listed in the CoBOM must be activated in
the same transaction, i.e., either all or none.

> The number of CoBOMs required in a given supply chain eco-system is dependent on
> Verifier Owner's appraisal policy, which is often driven by the complexity and nature of
> use case.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Verifier Owner's appraisal policy determines whether CoBOMs are required, this decision is made based on the complexity and nature of the supply chain eco-system.
```

Author: @andrew-draper I have taken good parts of your feedback and kept the conversation `use-case` driven.

Reviewer 2: resolved

> use case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the use case.
```

> In a certain use case CoBOM's may not be required at all. For example, where only limited CoRIMs

Reviewer: This is inconsistent with the requirement in L1257-1258.

Author: Good catch, we need to word-smith L1257-1258 to state that when a Verifier policy requires CoBOM then,  Data contained in a tag MUST NOT be used
for appraisal until a CoBOM which activates that tag has been received and successfully processed.

Author: I will make the change!

Author: Ok, I have done in the new revision!

> are produced by a single authority. In such cases any tags in a CoRIM received by a Verifier

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are produced by a single authority. In such cases, any tags in a CoRIM received by a Verifier
```

> In a certain use case CoBOM's may not be required at all. For example, where only limited CoRIMs
> are produced by a single authority. In such cases any tags in a CoRIM received by a Verifier
> are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some Verifier Owners will have the policy that CoBOM's are not required.
A Verifier Owner policy which rejects CoRIMs which do not have a signature chain from an
acceptable authority may not require additional authorization via CoBOM. This Verify Owner
would set the Verifier policy to activate all tags immediately, skipping CoBOM checks.
```

Author: Re-worded and tidied up as per Andrew's suggestion!

> are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
are immediately activated and become valid for appraisal.
```

However, a more common case is the one where Verifier receives multiple CoRIMs containing

> Reference Values and Endorsements from multiple Reference Value providers and Endorsers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reference Values and Endorsements from multiple Reference Value providers and Endorsers respectively.
```

> In such cases an Integrator or a Supplier authority is often designated to issue a single CoBOM

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In such cases, an integrator or a supplier authority may be designated to issue a single CoBOM
```

Reviewer 2: resolved

> However, a more common case is the one where Verifier receives multiple CoRIMs containing
> Reference Values and Endorsements from multiple Reference Value providers and Endorsers.
> In such cases an Integrator or a Supplier authority is often designated to issue a single CoBOM
> to activate all the tags supplied in the CoRIMs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Alternatively, a Verifier Owner may choose to delegate approval of CoRIM tags to a CoBOM issuer.
The Verifier would be configured so that it only activates CoRIM tags which have been explicitly
approved by a CoBOM issued by an appropriate authority.
```

Author: Again the focus is on describing the use case situation rather than the result which drives the Policy, hence retained and tidied the existing text.

> to activate all the tags supplied in the CoRIMs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that activates all the tags supplied in the CoRIMs.
```

In a more complex case, there may be multiple authorities that issue CoBOM's at different points in time.

> A Verifier policy then dictates how multiple CoBOM's are processed within the Verifier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An Appraisal Policy for Evidence may dictate how multiple CoBOM's are to be processed within the Verifier.
```

# CoBOM {#sec-cobom}

A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) object represents the signal for the
Verifier to activate the listed tags. Verifier policy determines whether CoBOMs are required.

When CoBOMs are required, each tag MUST be activated by a CoBOM before being processed.
All the tags listed in the CoBOM MUST be activated atomically. If any tag activated by a CoBOM is not available to the Verifier, the entire CoBOM is rejected.

The number of CoBOMs required in a given supply chain ecosystem is dependent on
Verifier Owner's Appraisal Policy for Evidence. Corresponding policies are often driven by the complexity and nature of the use case.

> A Verifier Owner has a policy that does not require CoBOM, tags within a CoRIM received by a Verifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Verifier Owner has a policy that does not require CoBOM, tags within a CoRIM received by a Verifier
```

are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal.

> However there may be cases when Verifier receives CoRIMs from multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be cases when Verifier receives CoRIMs from multiple
```

> There may be cases when Verifier receives CoRIMs from multiple
> Reference Value providers and Endorsers. In such cases, an integrator or a supplier authority
> may be designated to issue a single CoBOM to activate all the tags submitted to the Verifier

Author: ```suggestion
There may be cases when Verifier receives CoRIMs from multiple
Reference Value providers and Endorsers. In such cases, a supplier authority (for example, an integrator)
may be designated to issue a single CoBOM to activate all the tags submitted to the Verifier
```

> Reference Value providers and Endorsers. In such cases, an integrator or a supplier authority
> may be designated to issue a single CoBOM to activate all the tags submitted to the Verifier
> in these CoRIMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference Value providers and Endorsers. In such cases, an integrator or a given supplier
may be designated to issue a single CoBOM to activate the relevant tags among those received by the Verifier.
```

> In a more complex case, there may be multiple authorities that issue CoBOM at different points in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a more complex case, there may be multiple authorities that issue CoBOMs at different points in time.
```

# CoBOM {#sec-cobom}

A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) object represents the signal for the
Verifier to activate the listed tags. Verifier policy determines whether CoBOMs are required.

When CoBOMs are required, each tag MUST be activated by a CoBOM before being processed.
All the tags listed in the CoBOM MUST be activated atomically. If any tag activated by a CoBOM is not available to the Verifier, the entire CoBOM is rejected.

The number of CoBOMs required in a given supply chain ecosystem is dependent on
Verifier Owner's Appraisal Policy for Evidence. Corresponding policies are often driven by the complexity and nature of the use case.

> For example, in cases where CoRIMs are produced by a single authority, a Verifier Owner may have
> a policy that CoBOM's are not required. In this case, signature chain over each CoRIM establishes required authorization,
> and may not require additional authorization via CoBOM. Any tags in a CoRIM received by a Verifier
> are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal.

Author: ```suggestion
A Verifier Owner has a policy that does not require CoBOM, tags within a CoRIM received by a Verifier
are activated immediately and treated valid for appraisal.
```

# CoBOM {#sec-cobom}

A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) object represents the signal for the

> Verifier to activate the listed tags. When CoBOMs are required, data contained
> in a tag SHOULD NOT be used for appraisal until a CoBOM which activates that tag has been received and
> successfully processed. All the tags listed in the CoBOM must be activated in

Author: ```suggestion
Verifier to activate the listed tags. Verifier policy determines whether CoBOMs are required.

When CoBOMs are required, each tag MUST be activated by a CoBOM before being processed.
All the tags listed in the CoBOM MUST be activated in
```

# CoBOM {#sec-cobom}

A Concise Bill of Material (CoBOM) object represents the signal for the
Verifier to activate the listed tags. Verifier policy determines whether CoBOMs are required.

When CoBOMs are required, each tag MUST be activated by a CoBOM before being processed.

> All the tags listed in the CoBOM MUST be activated in
> the same transaction, i.e., either all or none.

Author: ```suggestion
All the tags listed in the CoBOM MUST be activated atomically. If any tag activated by a CoBOM is not available to the Verifier, the entire CoBOM is rejected.
```
